"The mark of a moderate man
is freedom from his own ideas.
Tolerant like the sky,
all-pervading like sunlight,
firm like a mountain,
supple like a tree in the wind,
he has no destination in view
and makes use of anything
life happens to bring his way..."
~ Tao Te Ching 59 (S. Mitchell version)

"We need to let go of our cultural obsession with prediction and control and
instead develop the wisdom and humility to sit with multiplicity, celebrate
ambiguity and befriend uncertainty"
~ Sarah Firth

"A good scientist has freed himself of concepts and keeps his mind open to
what is."
~ Tao Te Ching 27 (S. Mitchell version)

"I have approximate answers and possible beliefs and different degrees of
certainty about different things. But I'm not absolutely sure of anything...
I don't have to know an answer. I don't feel frightened by not knowing
things."
~ Richard Feynman

"Do we continue to operate from a divided state, a state of fear and panic and
noisy narratives that lock us into armored perspectives and narrow pedestals?
Or do we open so wide that we can hold the totality of the mess, the loss, the
grief, the horror and the agony in that openness, and then remain as this
openness come what may?"
~ Amoda Maa

"...blind certainty, a close-mindedness that amounts to an imprisonment so
total that the prisoner doesn't even know he's locked up."
~ David Foster Wallace

"The libido domanandi is a Latin term that can be roughly translated as “lust
for domination.” ...[it] is motivated by service to the self and want to
control everything: control what is good, control what is “fact” or “true”,
control how others behave, control who receives laurels and praise... [it] is
all about the self: The self’s want for domination of the world and all in
it."
~ Paul Krause

"A brain that is open, that embraces humility, that can let go of what it
thought to be true in the past, in order to seek understanding. That is a
brain that is a movement. And that brain, and that person, will thrive in the
very place, that we are most afraid, the darkness of uncertainty."
~ R. Beau Lotto

"Can you love people and lead them without imposing your will? ...Giving birth
and nourishing, having without possessing, acting with no expectations,
leading and not trying to control: this is the supreme virtue."
~ Tao Te Ching 10 (S. Mitchell version)

Westward: Let me begin with Repetition. Unseen metronome. Seconds, minutes,
hours. Days & nights. Sun & Moon. The Wildfire of Bodies breathing the Spark of
Life. Unchosen birth. Unchosen body. Awareness & memory. Sleeping & waking,
always this same body. Aging & Death?
Many have words, but who can show us why? I don't know why. It is all, a Great
Mystery.
Memento amaris. On towards death, Self.

My Self Confession of Not Knowing: I confess to you that ultimately, I am
uncertain. I don't know what's going on or why or what it's like to be you. That
I might be wrong. I can only perceive the world through my Awareness. That words
can deceive, even my own. We choose definitions. That, everything changes. That,
your Awareness & mine are still, the greatest of mysteries.

Openness: Being open to what is. Listening. Admitting when we don't know.
Questioning certainty. Noticing preferred stories. Imagining what might be true.
Suspending judgment. Sitting in the discomfort of uncertainty. Holding yet not
clinging, allowing space for the flow of The Mystery to unfold. Deciding &
acting when we must, but ever returning to Openness.

The Mystery: two-words confessing, "for I know I do not know". My
imagination, pointing at the infinite star sky of Possibility, the dangers of
the dark woods, the river-truth of tears, at the Source of Life & Awareness.
At what comes next.
Many can tell us words, but who can show us if our Awareness ends? Or where it
came from? Or why, even for the innocent, there is sickness, suffering &
death?
The Mystery is endless. The Mystery is everywhere.

Awareness: the word pointing at the spheric open spaciousness enveloping the
unseeable inner eye & ear, the river of embodied feeling. At my perceptions,
my subjective experience, which I imagine others similarly experience. Who,
also, can but only imagine others' Awareness?
Why is my Awareness only in my body? Others appear to have Awareness, but if
we can't experience others' Awareness, how can we be certain?

Not Knowing: Truth is the river, white-water rapids, raw chaos unfolding. Sensed
instantly yet infinitely wordable. We begin believing we know the river, but all
we really know are the river banks. Endlessly changing form & content, can any
words or forms ever fully express the river?
Not knowing is sitting in silence by the river, noticing how in time, even the
river banks change.

The Truth of Lies: There is but one Truth which can be told, that we can be
certain is not a lie: that we have all been lied to, that we will be lied to &
that this lying will never stop. None of us chooses it, but lying & deception
are fundamental to the nature of being human.
When someone tells us words, who decides if they are true? If we trust others
to decide what is true, who chooses who we trust? If an intentional lie is
told & we don't question it & repeat it to others, who is to blame?

Artifice: is the manifestations, not of Nature, but of our collective &
individual desires. All human spaces are made of chosen forms. Artifice is the
mirror, which pretends itself to be Nature, in whose reflection we choose to
deceive ourselves.
Have your eyes, ever seen your own face, as others' eyes do?

Noticing a Blind Certainty: A Blind Certainty doesn't listen. It won't consider
questions. It has no doubts. Its mind has fully merged with its choice & it has
become blind & unaware of itself. It doesn't seek opposing views. It ignores
counter evidence. It sees only what it prefers. It doesn't care if it's been
deceived. It never admits who benefits. It has seen itself decide, in the
mirrors of others' minds & its heart has closed. It has forgotten the sky.
Who hides from us all that is uncomfortable & undesired? What words can reach us
when we stop listening to what might be true? How are hearts returned to wonder?

Questioning Certainty: Possessed by a Blind Certainty, the Libido Dominandi
imposes its will on others. It uses words, not to clarify, but to confuse &
control. It ridicules & deceives. It corrupts & coerces. It silences with fear,
seizing the collective will. It demonizes & harms others saying, "For the
greater good of us all. Any who disagree, stand against us. There can be no
other way."
Allowing others the greatest latitude to be as they are, there is peace. Yet at
the root of all evil is a Blind Certainty, which must question itself. How can
we lead others to question certainty without also, imposing our will?

Faith: If no one can show us where Awareness goes after death, how can we be
certain Life has no higher purpose? That our choices have no higher
consequences? That hurt, loss & struggle have no higher meaning? If Life has a
higher purpose, then being uncertain, not knowing precisely what that purpose is
or what exists outside the context of our lives, is an essential part of that
higher purpose. Faith is trusting the vital darkness of the sky, whose daylight
otherwise conceals the higher lights of the heavens.

A Worthy Vessel: The planks of concepts built into the Ship of Self, allowing
Awareness to experience, interpret, learn, evolve & navigate the deepest waters
of The Mystery. To thrive even in the chaos & uncertainty of the storm. All
these ideas, planks.
Who chooses the planks of the Ship of Self?
